So now that we've finished
giving an overview of the Test
Driver program, let's start by
talking about the applyAllIter
test method.
And this method uses "work
stealing" to disperse tasks
to worker threads.
And you can find the source code
in the ex22 folder in my GitHub
account.
So let's talk about how
this method is implemented.
This method will apply some
"op"-- which is a function--
to all the items in
a list it's given--
that list, of course,
will be the list
of all the big fractions
that we talked about before--
by calling the fork-join
methods iteratively
on the fork-join tasks.
So that's basically what
it's going to be doing,
and you'll see why this
ends up using work stealing
to get the information
distributed out
to the threads in
the worker pool.
The parameters that
are passed in here
are treated as "effectively
final" variables
in the anonymous
inner class below.
And the reason they're
effectively final
is that they don't change after
they're passed as parameters.
So even though they're
not marked as final,
they're effectively
final, which just
means that they don't
change between the point
where they're brought
into the method
and when they're actually used.
So here's what this looks like.
We're going to create an
anonymous recursive task
instance whose compute
method will iteratively
create many sub-tasks.
This code is sadly
somewhat verbose
due to the fact that the
fork-join pool appeared
in Java 7, the recursive task
is not a functional interface,
and, therefore, we can't
use lambdas here as we would
if this was done in
a more modern Java 8
and beyond programming stuff.
But we just have
to deal with it.
That's one of the reasons, by
the way, why some people like
to use the streams
framework because you
can use functional
programming mechanisms,
but we're stuck here
using the old school,
object-oriented
approaches instead.
The RecursiveTask that
we're creating here
is passed to the invoke
method on the fork-join pool.
And if you remember our
discussion of invoke
back in a previous week, when
we talked about the ForkJoinPool
class, you'll
remember that invoke
is a method that allows
non-fork-join task
clients to submit a fork-join
task into the fork-join pool.
And what this does
is it will invoke
this task in the fork-join
pool, and then it'll
block waiting for
the task to finish,
and then it'll return
the results back.
So this is a classic
blocking two-way call,
and that's exactly what we want
for our little test program
here.
Not always the right choice,
but for what we're doing here,
it's the right choice.
Here is the actual body
of the compute method
itself, which I have kind
of expanded out and left
out some of the
details surrounding it,
like the fact that it's
being passed to invoke.
So this is the
hook method that'll
get called back to implement
the main fork-join task.
This is the one that starts
all the wheels in motion.
You can see the
first thing that we
do is we create ourselves a new
LinkedList of fork-join tasks,
and we call that linked
list the forks list.
And then we also create
another LinkedList
of basically items t,
which will be the result.
So whatever the list of
t is that gets passed in,
we're going to end
up with results
after we apply the operation
to every item in the list.
So we have two lists.
Both of them are
treated as linked lists.
So res is the
results list, forks
is the list of fork-join
tasks that we're
going to go run in parallel.
We then go ahead and
use a for-each loop
to iterate through every
item in the list parameter.
Remember, those are all
of the randomly generated,
big fractions that we have.
And what we're
going to do is we're
going to create a new
anonymous RecursiveTask,
and we're going to have
its compute method applied
the function op that's
passed as a parameter
to every element
in the input list.
And it will then go ahead and
add that to the forks list.
And then the final
thing it'll do,
it'll go ahead and
fork off the task.
So what we're doing here is
we're basically forking off
the task, which arranges to
run it in the fork-join pool.
And we go ahead and add that
Recursive Task to the forecast
list so we can keep track
of it so we can join it,
which we'll do in just a moment.
Now, when fork gets
called, remember,
fork doesn't start the
wheels in motion immediately.
It simply cues up that task in
the deck of the calling thread.
So let's say, for
sake of argument,
we had a list with a
million items in it.
[CHUCKLES] That
will then go ahead
and throw every
one of those items
into the deck of that worker
thread in the fork-join pool.
They'll all be in one deck.
And of course,
this implementation
is going to rely on the
work stealing mechanism
to disperse these tasks
to the other worker
threads in the pool because
we don't want that one caller
worker thread to
process them all.
We want the other worker threads
to go ahead and steal them
and do their thing in parallel.
And that's exactly the
way this is going to work.
So after we do all
those forks, then we're
going to go ahead and
go into another loop
where we're going to loop
through the forks list.
So for each task in the
forks list-- remember,
we just forked all those things
and stuck them into the forks
list--
we're going to go ahead
and call the join method
on each of those tasks in turn.
And we'll refresh
your memory about what
join does in just a moment.
But when join returns, we
will take the result, which
will be the result of basically
reducing and multiplying
that large, random,
big fraction,
and we'll add it to
the res results list.
Now, remember how join works.
The way that join works is
when join us called on a task,
it doesn't actually
block the thread.
Instead, it has the thread
pitch in and run tasks
until it finds
the result that we
were trying to join with
when that task is finished.
So that's the Jiffy Lube
model of pitching in
and collaboratively
working to make
things work more effectively.
When the for loop
returns, that means
that all the results
have finished
and we've joined, and gotten
their values back, and added
them to the results list.
And then we go
ahead and pass back
the results list as the
parameter from the applyAllIter
method.
OK.
So that's kind of
how things work.
This implementation,
I think you'll agree,
is very simple to program
and understand since it's
inherently iterative.
Let's visualize how
this thing works
because it's pretty important
to understand the big picture.
And this will also show
you this whole concept
about using work stealing.
So here's the
applyAllIter method.
And over here, I show
you the ForkJoinPool
with its shared queue.
And when the invoke method
is first called, remember,
that's a way to enable
a non-fork-join task
client to insert a task into
the ForkJoinPool's shared queue.
So that goes out and puts that
initial anonymous inner class
task into the shared queue.
What then happens is one of the
threads in that ForkJoinPool--
let's call it WT1--
will go ahead and start to
compute that initial task.
It'll get it from the shared
queue and start to compute it.
And there, as you can see,
it runs that for loop.
And what that for
loop does, as we
talked about when
we analyze the code,
is it goes ahead and forks all
the various tasks or sub-tasks
and sticks them into
the that worker thread's
deck-- the WT1'S deck.
And so all those
things are in the deck.
And this is the compute method.
This is the part that's doing
that the original recursive
task's compute method.
So now we have a deck
full of these sub-tasks--
all the sub-tasks
we're going to run.
So what happens at this point?
Does everything just run
in WT1, in that thread?
Of course not.
What's going to happen is that
the other threads in the pool--
WT2, WT3, whichever
ones they are--
will say, hey, I'm
just sitting here idle.
I want to do some
work, so I'm going
to go ahead and steal tasks
off of the deck of WT1.
And I will start to process
them in my thread-- in my deck.
And so it goes ahead and steals
the threads, steals the tasks,
and then starts to have
the other threads run
those tasks in parallel.
So the key thing to note here,
from a kind of comparison
point of view, is that
work stealing overhead
is high because we put
everything in one deck
originally.
So we got to steal
a lot of stuff.
But copying and
method call overhead
is very low because we're
just getting this stuff,
and away we go.
The worker threads will all
pitch in when join is called,
and they'll also
run other tasks.
And when their particular
task that they're joining with
gets a result, they will return,
add the result to the results
list, and away we go.
So that's the
collaborative, Jiffy Lube
model of pitching in and
being a good employee.
This particular loop here--
the one that does the joining--
implements what we know as
"barrier synchronization"
because it effectively blocks
the progress of this program
until all the tasks
have finished.
And we've talked about
various synchronization
at length in our concurrent
object-oriented programming
course.